## installApps task
---
The `installApps` task copies applications generated by the Gradle project to the Liberty server's `dropins` or `apps` directory. Unlike the [deploy](deploy.md#deploy-task) task, `installApps` performs a simple copy operation. It does not require the server to be running and does not check if the application was successfully deployed.

### dependsOn
`installApps` depends on any tasks of type `war` or `ear` so the package is ready before installation.  
`installApps` also depends on `libertyCreate` to ensure that the server exists.

### Parameters

See the [Liberty server configuration](libertyExtensions.md#liberty-server-configuration) properties for common server configuration.

In particular, the `apps`, `dropins`, `stripVersion`, and `looseApplication` properties are used for application installation.

Loose Application is only supported by Gradle 4.0 or higher for tasks of type ear.

If you target an application to the `dropins` folder, no configuration is needed to get the server to start the application. When you want to configure an application in server.xml, the `location` is relative to the `apps` folder. Applications in the `apps` folder are not started without configuration. If you configure an application to install to the `apps` folder and it is not configured, default configuration is created in the `configDropins` folder.

Multiple applications can be installed to the `apps` or `dropins` directories. This can be done by adding application files, or the tasks that generate these files, to the respective list.

### Using the libertyApp configuration

The `libertyApp` configuration can be used to pull in application artifacts as dependencies and then install them to the server's `apps` directory. You can specify the artifact as any type of object that can be resolved in to a Dependency object by Gradle. The application artifact still needs to be a supported application type of `war` or `ear` to be installed.

### Examples:

```groovy
apply plugin: 'liberty'
apply plugin: 'war'

task libertyWarTask(type:War){
    ...
}

liberty {
    server {
        name = 'myServer'
        apps = [file('build/libs/libertyApp.war'), libertyWarTask]
        dropins = [war]
        stripVersion = true
    }
}
```

```groovy
apply plugin: 'liberty'
apply plugin: 'ear'


liberty {
    server {
        name = 'myServer'
        //assuming ear application is already configured in the server.xml
        apps = [ear]
        stripVersion = true
    }
}
```

```groovy
apply plugin: 'liberty'

dependencies {
    libertyApp 'example:app:1.0'
}
```
